here is the fix that circumvents the inability of ledger's native radar facility to detect 1-sat fees

fees lower than 40 csat-1 fees fly totally undetected under the radar native to the ledger nano-s facility and those fees < $1 are being intermittently 
intercepted.

by design, electron cash radar sweeps even the lowest 1-sats.

if u've already used ledger with btc or eth then allow yourself at least an hour to apply this fix which hooks up the ledger radar
station with the adjoining electron cash radar facilty. If you're totally new to ledger than allow a full-on crypto-weekend to learn
the special ropes needed for detecting low flying 1 sat objects.

set up your bch wallet to operate on the split chain. install bitcoin cash wallet 1.1.8 from the chrome browser and launch it..

click both ledger buttons together on the bitcoin cash window to open your bch wallet in ledger, check that browser-support = no on the device...toggle between "use wallet to view" and "settings" then dual-click on settings

then install electroncash.org as follows

1) check u have the latest version here https://github.com/fyookball/keys-n-hashes/tree/master/sigs-and-sums ... 
it says mac 3.1.2 but i assume that applies also to windows..

2) file / new-restore / standard / add hardware wallet

3) the native electron wallet is called default-wallet, when the ledger connects the second wallet on electron it will be called
 wallet-1 or wallet-2

4) after the first connection, installing electron subsequently will remember wallet-1 or 2 and take u directly there where u can
see the ledger address of your main account.

5) when u send from ledger u will see the tx show up in electron way before ledger picks it up, so u must not disconnect electron
 until your funds go through via 6 confirmations

TIPS FOR ESTABLISHING THE CONNECTION

1) everytime u hit an error on electroncash.org reboot, open the bch wallet with the code even though your timeout period maybe
 10 mins

2) try swopping usb ports

3) if new/restore takes u straight into wallet-1 or 2 and u can see your ledger addresses called "my account" inside electron,
 then the connection is ok, even though u get no confirmation message and even though u cant see you additional ledger adresses..

4) if u get the "install wizard" dialog when u click new/restore , then click choose to see what wallets u have got if u see that
 wallet-1 and wallet-2 have both been created then delete both and start again

5) if u get the "install wizard" dialog when u click new/restore check and u see either the wallet-1 or wallet-2 screen, then 
check that u are seeing your ledger addreses on wallet-1 or 2

TIPS FOR HELPING TX SUCCEED

1) allow 24 hours for confirmation

2) if u have more than 1 account and u reset app data...via settings on chrome browser support, click on tools/ reset application data. Next time u go into ledger your bch balance will look like zero. but when u recoonect with electroncash, the funds in your main account will show up first and then several hours later the funds in your additional accounts should also be recovered.

4) if u get tx has succeeded then look at the electron report and give ledger an extra few hours to respond

MORAL OF THE STORY

be prepared to test the ledger to electron Interface with lots of patience. this is uncharted territory in the public domain as 
this topic is off-limits for both wallet-providers, and they are very much limited how much they can comment about their unlikely liason.

CAUTIONARY TALE

before loading up your savings on a hardware wallet i suggest buy a trezor and a ledger or 2 trezors if u don't have the nerves for applying and testing this fix.

load one device up with a few dollars of bch and few dollars of eth tokens, and practice cloning each wallet back and forth with and without a passphrase and with multiple accounts, so u can decide whether to use a passphrase or not. check 3 accounts on each machine, and if u have a ledger make sure to test the reset app data command with 3 accounts. [allow few hours for recovery process]

when u'r proficient and confident then load up your saving / spending accounts onto one machine and clone the other. that process by now should be a breeze.
